Notes from PMI study hall

Assess the situation and see how a change would impact your project THEN you can submit any changes or discuss with stakeholders for ways to react to the change. Understand the impact first before you can document anything accurately. 
This is not always true though. For example, if the PMO has already given their input and said something is not gonna work and you know you’re behind, then assessing the issue isn’t a priority. It’s already been done by the PMO. So follow up with next applicable steps. Like submitting a change request to the CCB if a prototype failed. 
Doing a cost-benefit analysis is proactive and helps later update the risk management plan, escalate issues to the project sponsor, and even submit a change request. You need to UNDERSTAND the problem first before reacting /reactive/ to it. 
In essence, analysis. Take in information first before responding. 
Sometimes the test asks “what should you have done differently” so the assumption is you did not do a procedure correct. Do not assume the change management plan was created already, because the answer may be analyze business charter and develop a change management plan. 
If the project manager finds a delivereable that was overlooked, you need to recalculate the costs of the project. Add the work to the WBS and recalculate project metrics. 
Understand the wording and figure out where you are in the project life. If a sponsor is asking to break down the project charter, you are at the initializing stage then. The scope needs to be approved first by the sponsor so the team can start detailing the breakdown. 
A customer requirement is more general and broad than a technical requirement. 
When starting a new project but have not created the business case yet, identify the scope, vision, and mission. the WHY!
A Resource Breakdown Structure (RBS) helps in reviewing EARLY resource estimates in the planning stages. Imagine guessing just a rough estimate how many people and raw material you may need to start a house construction. It wont be exact but that’s the point. It’s just for early estimations. This is different than if a sponsor was asking to breakdown milestones at the planning stage because you’ll need a scope and WBS done first instead. 
You should closely monitor stakeholders at the bare minimum. BARE MINIMUM. NO INTEREST OR INFLUENCE. 
Expediting a shipment may not be feasible. Do not rely on that. Instead, await arrival of the material needed and reevaluate timelines. 
It’s good to establish good working relationships with all stakeholders
The budget/cost is not the focus in Agile. 
Issue log FIRST when a risk has began to effect the project.
Risky stories first as risk increases in time. 
If requirements are not well gathered, you risk screwing up planning costs, schedule, and quality planning/benchmarking
A communications management plan highlights how to comm formal project announcement, relevant info to stakeholders, and gain their commitment. 
Under a business transformation, existing assets may be used to adapt and tailor to the change. 
You can negotiate to get a resource (like a person) back on the team if it’s shown how important they are. If you fail, you can request from HR next. Don’t tell the customer you can’t do it until you have exhausted all options.
Take full responsibility of a delivery to avoid blame game.
PM needs to know if contract standards and specifications have been met when a procurement delivery is made, so the PM should inform the inspections group upon arrival. 
Check third party vendor terms of delivery if the vendor is failing to meet their end of the deal. KNOW ALL THE INFO AND BACK UP YOU HAVE FIRST BEFORE MAKING A DECISION.
Resource profiling is looking at the big picture and that resources it will need to see it get accomplished. From macro to micro. This depends on project complexity, organization size, and project duration. 
Fixed price contract has no risk of cost overrun. Everything is already paid. The vendor faces the brunt of the costs of goods now. 
Agile has no CCB. They put changes in the product backlog
Hold a workshop early in the project, maybe even in the initializing stage, to have stakeholders agree ona  common communication language in a multinational projects. 
Stakeholder registry is an output from ID stakeholders. You identified and listed stakeholder’s names, area of interest, level of pos/neg influence, etc…
In the initial stages of a complex project, you want all your stakeholders to meet somehow. This is how they can agree (or disagree) to prioritize and foresee any risks. A questionnaire is too one sided. You want the controlled chaos of collaboration.
You can build an agile project charter to define the project’s goals and objectives. It’ll reduce scope creep and outline Definition of Done. Hold a meeting with every stakeholder to do this of course.
The project scope statement describes the key deliverable as an input towards the project charter. It also includes the project’s goals, objectives, deliverables, and acceptance criteria. SLA (service level agreements) are not inputs in the project charter. 

Hybrid
All risks should be ID’d so it can be assessed and categorized. 
It’s appropriate to dev a risk mngment plan and inform key stakeholders if historical data in unavailable as this will raise risks. 
The Delphi technique uses anonymous polling to ID risks, then gather that polling and circulate throughout the stakeholders again to revise their contributions. Done with a few iterations.
Though servant leader is a plus, honesty is what a project manager really needs. Servant leader is just a type of leadership and plenty others have their benefits. 
Secondary risks are created from a risk response. A residual risk is a lingering issue from the original risk that has since had a response against. For example, a flood has occurred. A residual risk would be the possibility of mold growing in the first floor. A secondary risk would be the flood dams and flood drains may fail or would require constant maintenance, taking away primary resources from the project. 
As a PM for a supplier vendor, be wary of increasing prices to simply cover risk costs. You may not get the contract. Instead, advise mngment to purchase insurance and transfer that risk. 
Lessons learned are NOT done only in the end of the project, but throughout the project’s life. It is the lessons learned repository. 
Checklists, brainstorming, SWOT (Strength, Weakness, Opportunities, and Threats) analysis, and assumption analysis are all part of the risk ID. NOT ANALYSIS. See brainstorming i.e. You sit down to think what may come up in the project. SWOT doesn’t analyze the risks found, but ID’s the risks in a project along with positive risks, any weakness, and strength the project or business may have. Assumption analysis cuts through the assumption log to see what risks are underlying. 
It is appropriate to submit a change request to a CCB if court order decision has affected market environment and procedures in hybrid.
Sometimes it’s better to close a project that people neglected for years and money has almost ran out when you first jump in. A fresh restart is sometimes needed, especially if there’s a history of issues and more scope changes are in the way.
A change in baseline requirements mean you need to invoke the project change management procedure. 
Command and majority vote are the quickest ways to make a decision. 
An agile teams works together to remove impediments through knowledge transfer to achieve goals. Kanban helps visualize the work too of course. 
Keep the team focused on their project. If software applications to  fail then it is up to the PM to get it fixed away from the team. So no delegation. It takes people away. 
The project iteration board in a sprint shows the project’s status and can assist all project members in their tasks. 
It’s most important that every stakeholder meets with mutual interests aligned at the start of a complex project. This ensures project’s success and maintains good relationships with the stakeholders. Don’t be a kiss ass. Just take charge and show action.
The PDCA cycle is a model use for continiuous improvement or to add and monitor a change. Plan, do, check, and act. and it keeps going. 
If a change request effects the cost baseline, update the cost baseline as appropriate
The PM can help team members prioritize their personal tasks against the project’s goals. They don’t have to do it outside of work hours
Iterative planning will help clear up unclear requirements
The PM should always conduct periodical reviews of the project plans, objectives, and deliverables. This will aid in making informed project decisions. 
You need the vision first for success!
Iterative is great for unclear requirements. GREAT “how about this? does this work? Great. We’ll keep working on that” (one week later) “okay how does it look now? Better? Is this what you think you wanted?”

Build and lead a team
Read questions carefully. An early stage of a project may signify the initiation stage and may not have a project charter created yet. An understanding between all stakeholders are critical in this stage. 
The responsibility assignment matrix (RAM) has details on roles and responsibilities on tasks and resources. This can be used to fill in any gaps if someone leaves the project. 

Integrate proj planning activities
The project sponsor is actually responsible in bringing project value to the ORGANIZATION. The project sponsor is at the macro level of the business organization.
Create a collaborative approach to help your team understand an unfamiliar product better with peer to peer training. This will internalize knowledge. 
A detailed project schedule should be built on the project scope and resource allocation clarified in the kickoff meeting. 

Agile
Empowered team members self-organize on specific tasks to meet objectives. 
Stakeholder analysis:
Power, impact, influence, requirements, and expectations. If all else, remember power, impact and influence. The rest should make sense. 
Remember collaboration to solve issues!
Review/gather information before making a decision. OODA (observe, orient, decide, act)
A Pareto chart is graph with both histograms and a line graph that adds up each variable to 100%.
For technical changes, tell the team about it and have them decide how to proceed with development. They can also coordinate changes with stakeholders. Usually agile has a small team so communication points aren’t too complex. This will empower them. 
Let the team decide and evolve their roles. Help establish cooperation and trust. 
An impediment would slow down team velocity. Think of an actual hurdle in a track race. 
A Release Train Engineer is a program level role that facilitates processes and execution. They drive continuous development, manage risks, and escalate impediments. A PM could do the same there. 
The project team can address technical changes in a project deliverable’s scope. This makes sense. If I know nothing about software engineering, why and how could I assess the change request’s impact? I need my team to figure that out. 
The scope management plan details how the product scope will be defined, validated, and controlled. it also provides guidance and direction on how scope will be managed throughout the project.  
If there’s an opportunity, discuss with the product owner and talk about any concerns along with it. Not every opportunity is perfect. Some may have drawbacks that need to be weighed out. 
Closely monitor the budget if it’s tight.
Stakeholders need to be aligned with the product owner. They all work together to define product direction.
High risk initiatives should focus on high value delivery first. 
If there’s active disagreements now, talk about it now. Don’t look back on what was past agreed on. 
Ultimately, it’s up to the products owner if they want to do anything to a feature after a stakeholder proposes it

Crosswords
The risk register is an risk management process output. It is a repository as it can accumulate and house all the risk items in a list. 
A swarm is method of multiple teams focus collectively on solving a problem or task
A test plan ehas what deliverables will be tested, how by what tests, and the process of doing so. 
a story point reflects the amount of relative effort to implement a user story
Scope is the sum of products, services, and results that are to be provided in a project
A dashboard shows charts and graphs to show progress/performance
A story map is a visual model of all features and functionality to give the team a holistic view of what they are building and why. 

Plan and Manage Quality of Products/deliverables
Perform qual control once you believe your deliverables are done in the execution side. Think of the process. Control is next in the process, though it is continuous during the project, it ends with control nonetheless. 
Scope management plan describes how the scope is defined, developed, monitored, controlled, and validated. It details how formal acceptance of the completed project deliverable will be obtained. 
Quality metrics describe deliverable attributes and how to measure them
Control charts measure if a process is stable or has predictable performance. Histograms can be used to investigate causes and the quantity of defects a product may have, on the other hand. 

Mini exam 7
It should be top priority that all stakeholders and the project sponsor agree on the project plan, scope, and deliverables at the planning stage. Collaborate
Connect with SMEs when trying to understand requirements and how to reduce procurement estimates. They can teach what is actually valuable and should be sought after on an item. 
FOR CPI AND SPI, ANYTHING GREATER THAN 1 IS GOOD. YOU WANT MORE THAN 1. MORE THAN 1 GOOD. MORE THAN 1 GOOD. MORE THAN 1 GOOD. MORE THAN 1 GOOD. 
The project sponsor is responsible for procurement funding and committing resources, so they are responsible for signing off on projects. Sometimes, the sponsor does not talk to the customer. 
Ensure user stories are detailed. You can miss requirements with vague user stories. 
Acceptance criteria is part of scope planning and management. 
Monte Carlo simulation. My sim is called Monte Carlo. 

Manage project issues
Cost of change refers to defect cycle time, escaped defects, and technical debt. 

Address and Remove impediments,…
Company culture has the same impact on all projects and requirements, so it should not be used to help prioritize. 
If team members are unfamiliar with Agile, use mathematical models defined by team members and stakeholders to ensure critical business requirements are planned and delivered. You want to avoid as much opinions and forms of subjectivity as possible. 
Sometimes, you just got to remove an obstacle is someone is a constant issue and pushes problems on to the team. Rarely, but it happens. 
Impediments in an impediment board should be prioritized based on levels of importance and in relation to those already in the log. 

Conflicts between team members can be categorized as structural or interpersonal. This will help develop a plan to address the issue. Structural conflicts are caused by factors outside of the team like unrealistic deadlines or unclear expectations. Interpersonal conflicts are caused by differences between team members. 
Read the full answer man. 
You want teams to communicate. If an outside team is affecting your project team, have both teams meet. Don’t just meet their manager. Think collaborate!

Plan and manage schedule
Use PERT if you have most likely outcome, pessimistic, and optimistic guesses. 
[O + M(4) + P ] / 6
Address issues as they occur is usually a great option. Scheduling daily standup meetings to keep team informed helps in expectations and is a form of training. People can ask questions there. Better than just one CBT to be “trained”. 

Predictive
A directive behavioral orientation tend to want to take charge, and prefer a clear and concise communication (especially so they can send clear orders)
Residual risk is risk that remains AFTER responses have been implemented FROM the primary. Secondary are a direct result from the response itself. 
Risk register should be updated with new risks. “may”  means the issue doesn’t exist yet. It can happen, but it has NOT happened yet. 
Negotiate before escalation! You got this.



Assess and manage risks
Realizing the project is a prime focus. Get viables options first before making a decision. Assess. Don’t act yet. 
Stakeholder interest in the project charter will point at the SMEs who can help identify risks.

Plan and manager project/phase closure or transition
logging deployment Is part of releasing into production during transition. Production deployment TESTING, active stakeholder participation, and stakeholder satisfaction survey is part of validating a release in transition. 

 
Always ask for customer inputs if there is trouble visualizing project requirements
In predictive, it’s a better call to get external resources involved if there isn’t enough time
If there’s issues with payment then do not close the project. You cannot close without having the payment taken care of
The SOW (statement of work) is done before the project charter.
STUDY INFLUENCE/COMMITMENT
If a blueprint was rejected, ask why first. Don’t review the engagement plan first.
if someone wants to adjust how they are communicated in a project, then oblige to it. 



Mini exam 14
The PM should reference the risk register and the risk report when prepping a status report. They would have any new risks added (which a probability and impact matrix would be outdated with because it never got the added list yet. This is later in the process).  
The project team can develop a stakeholder engagement plan to reference to align stakeholder expectations. 
The PMO is the authority that acts as an integral stakeholder and key decision maker throughout the entirety of a project. They may make recommendations, lead knowledge transfers, terminate projects, and take other actions as required. 
The project sponsor just funds the project. They are not an integral stakeholder. 
The customer is an external stakeholder. 
Crazy enough, the PM is not an integral stakeholder. They just manage the project but remember, there are matrices where a PM has low authority and are even ad-hoc/part time from an operational part of the business. Think military. 
A stakeholder engagement assessment matrix would help a PM understand how aware each stakeholder should be about the project.
	Unaware, resistance, neutral, supportive, leading. 

Mini exam 16
Sending stakeholders the plan before a kick off so we can have a productive kick off is a good idea especially if time is limited. 
Any change requested started initiates the change control process, which would include assessing the change is appropriate
At closure, the PM reviews the project management plan to ensure all work has been completed and the proj has met its objectives
the requirements mngment plan describes how requirements will be analyzed, documented, and managed. 
Quality management plan ID’s quality requirements and/or standards for proj and its deliverables, and how the proj will doc quality compliance.
Scope Management Plan describes how scope will be defined, developed, monitored/controlled, and validated (remember that this is in chronological order)
The integrated change control procedures will involve stakeholders to get involved in a change request like purchasing equipment. 
The feasibility study is early in the project that shows if the project is realistic. 
The project charter defines project objectives and constraints along with formally authorizing the project. 

You have just less than a minute and 20 seconds per question


Ensures proj info is always accessible to all stakeholders. 
Work with team to dev estimations and explain assumptions to client if no known historical data exists. 
The product owner is responsible for the project from the organization and they should be included for any serious discussions regarding project risks, issues, or noncompliance. 
If all stakeholders were involved in project planning, requirements wouldn’t be normally missing
Use the external factors in challenging projects as inputs to the project management plan, which will form part of the briefing in the kick off to ensure stakeholders are aware of the organization stance.
Assess/understand!

Understand team member’s contracts to close their participation properly, if appropriate, if they leave earlier than intended from the project. 
Achieved benefits shows what value the project has delivered so far. This is not the same as financial success. Value and finances are not the same, especially in agile.
RACI (responsible, accountable, consult, and inform) chart shows the project assigned work package, connections between, and the project team member responsible. 
Ask if acceptance criteria for all deliverables have been met when closing a project FIRST. 
Close a phase before starting a new phase. 

To complete a stakeholder register, you should hold a workshop with key project team members to brainstorm and ID potential stakeholders AND analyze interest, influence, and impact of the potential stakeholders from each business. 
Compromise/reconcile – listen and try to understand their perspective. 
When adopting new techniques, advocate for them. 

Escalation is a last resort in handling a risk. Assess (confirm) and rebaseline as appropriate to meet project budget and deadlines
Quick wins are a great way to sell agile to those unfamiliar. 
Burndown charts show what activities are left to be done but do not show how much time it would take. A WBS would break down activities to better understand time and resource required however. 
Procurement is a little difficult for me to understand. 	
OPAs (Organizational processes assets) would have plans, processes, policies, procedures, and knowledge bases. You can find ground rules here.
Trend analysis is used to forecast. 

In scrum, there are high flexibility and adaptability. After assessing, the PM can add the task into future sprints if appropriate
A kick off (or orientation) is a formal meeting where every stakeholder can address their expectations, goals, and requirements. 
Don’t give up when parent company is bought off. See if you can adapt to the market changes. Request changes to CCB as appropriate. 
Consult the terms and conditions of the vendor contract if there are any contractual disagreements

Track progress toward each benefit based on the benefits management plan top ensure intended value is delivered at each phase. 
Once the project has already started and is waiting on procurement, the team can draft a procurement management plan. Not just the PM.
A new PM midway into a project should review and update the stakeholder register to begin building rapport
The PM should work with the product owner on the product backlog. The backlog is the only source of input for the scrum to team to work with and the product owner is the only person who should reprioritize the backlog as necessary. However, they would also work with the scrum team. They just have the official title as they are ultimately responsible. 

The integration test criteria and reviewing the acceptance criteria with the project team should be incorporated with the validation process. These two define what “ready” means. 
Someone lost contact with the senior exec? And we need them? Let me call him. (Escalation is usually last resort)
Assess before deciding. Referring to the risk response plan to mitigate is an action, not an assessment. 
If working in an unsafe environment, ensure necessary health and safety reqs are met in the definition of done. You don’t design the policy. There’s ton of agencies and resources to site from already. Just include it in your dod and that it integrates with the project delivery process. 

The Product Owners should reprioritize the product backlog in an iterative project if the project is not aligned with objectives 
If pressured, you can estimate the duration of each project task to give a realistic project duration
Cost of hiring new resources verses outsourcing it matters. Not as much the strengths. Doesn’t matter if you can’t afford it. 
Putting requirements in the Definition of Done will keep the project team in check with what needs to be done. 
Introducing a third party/outsourcing adds complexity and does not guarantee faster completion time. Ensure the critical path is as efficient as possible with prioritized resources on essential tasks. 
Key stakeholders and SME would know more about regulations that impact project deliverables
If your team failed an audit, ensure that compliance was documented to begin with. 

The CCB can be engaged with to assess possible impacts from risks. They are stakeholders in the project afterall. Sometimes, key stakeholders.
Show any receipt evidence as soon as possible to fix any vendor issues as you’re closing a phase/project
Maintain that relationship with the supplier if they’re asking to negotiate prices. Talk with them and find out what happened. See if you can agree on a new price and minimize cost impact. 
When there’s new team members introduced, a new team is made. The dynamic will shift. Anything prior is obsolete and the team will need to meet to update existing social agreements on collaborative work.
if a project is not on track, compare the planned value to the earned value for the schedule variance. 
If there’s too many resources allocated to a relatively small part of the project, the project is imbalanced and needs to be leveled out. Ask the program to perform integrated resource leveling.
Assess impact and communicate the impact to key stakeholders if you learn new ways to execute an activity with a shorter duration. 
If the customer says a work needs to be prioritized, then so. They designate value. If they request to add changes in agile, implement the changes to be prioritized in the next iteration if one is ongoing.
If the agile’s backlog is too complex, then the product owner should reprioritize the product backlog.
If there’s an issue with the vendor and you haven’t spoken to them, do so. 
Add time to the schedule to allow senior agile members mentor new team members on processes if necessary. 
Creating a persona allows the PM to visualize the archetype their target represents. 

As before, if vendors are upset with their return on investment, try working with them. Discuss with stakeholders to figure out a good game plan to agree on this issue. 
Ensure the critical path has the resources it needs. If a schedule is behind, add more resources to that critical path and level other activities to be worked in parallel. 
Ensuring adherence means just validating and updating as appropriate. It does not mean that they need to issue out with authority onto others. 
The product owner is responsible for the project. If there’s a large legislation change that will effect the project, the product owner better be involved. 
If a crucial item is missed in an agile project, the product owner can create a user story for the next sprint. This means they said “we need this. Let’s prioritize it for next sprint”. 
Determine best comm methods based on locations to ensure virtual team meeting success
Determine meeting agenda with key stakeholders and share it to everyone in advance of meetings if people feel unprepared. Literally “we are going to talk about this!” 
If you’re so close to finishing a project and stakeholders want additional features super bad, analyze the changes with the team and go through the formal change control process
Open communication with the customer is key. 

Seek support from the project sponsor and initiate the appropriate response with change management procedures if you’re about to merge with another company
You need to commit to performance reviews regularly with vendors you are working with and ensuring they are all delivering as agreed-upon with their contract. This keeps quality and timely delivery expectations in check
If a company wants to switch methods from predictive to agile, submit that change to the CCB. 
Focus on facts and not hearsay.
Knowledge transfers take time. If someone has to leave for a week then just remove a few items from the current sprint after getting the product owner approval.
By training senior managers on agile methods, you introduce the method to the broader organization as they can now be ambassadors.


An information radiator would also work to provide key info from training sessions
Review communication guidelines as necessary when opinions are brought up. 
Project teams assign story points to user stories. No one else. They are doing the work and understand the amount of effort they would need to exert to accomplish the stories. Different teams would have different capacities. 
Working a risk adjusted product backlog can be prioritized with work assigned with risk impact x risk probability, along with project requirements. They can be prioritized by absolute value. If two reqs have a $10k and a $2k ROI and a risk has a risk impact of $9k at 30% probability, then the order is req 1, risk 1, req 2
the risk register is an OUTPUT of stakeholder analysis. Use stakeholder analysis to determine stakeholder relative importance.
A knowledge transfer document is a nice fallback to have for the replacing employee and outlines thought process and regs that can be used as reference. 
To create good stories, INVEST. Independent, Negotiable, Valuable, Estimatable, Small, and Testable
Take responsibility for mistakes and apologize for unintended consequences if you disrespected someone
Assess and review before making a decision!

Demos, reviews, and prototypes are great to demonstrate a product in case the product owner does not know how to assess the deliverable’s quality
if the team thinks their job is done but you see it’s clearly not, then the definition of done is not understood well
Agile emphasizes cross-functionality mixed with generalists and specialists that can adapt to changing requirements
Graduated time and materials is a pricing model that emphasizes the project to be completed in a time frame while the cost of materials and labor increase progressively in time. This shares the risk between vendor and project. Fixed price increments breaks work into smaller pieces and payment is made at completion of each increment. 
if the project team is having issues estimating activity duration, look up their performance records of similar past projects as reference. 
Clear assumptions in the project charter clears the project scope understanding. 
Questions asking about the how needs an answer with how. Not the what, or why.

Gather all relevant information if a team is having issues stemmed from management before discussing the concerns with said management. 
Common impediments when a team goes from predictive to agile are management trying to control processes of delivery and how management lacks team empowerment. They’re too used to rigid controls.
A satisfaction eval would address low morale and team efficiency issues. Imagine the “anonymous” sq surveys. 
Iterative projects DELIVER the project in increments and refine requirements. It does not refine a single deliverable for one delivery at the end. There are multiple deliveries done. 
If you take on too many jobs, you’ll get none finished. Prioritize which to get finished first
Change of templates need to be addressed through interactive communication to confirm acknowledgement
WBS should be a joint discussion, not individual. Otherwise you will get redundant/repeated processes in your work 
Level resources when resources are removed to balance entire project as necessary first, then you communicate these changes. This will also identify risks that need to be addressed like needing alternative resources, schedule changes, etc. Resource leveling is a proactive approach. 

If one member of the steering committee vocalizes their opinion in something important, get the rest of the committee’s opinion.
if a stakeholder complains that a deliverable is not easy to use, refer to the design and performance specifications to see if there really is an issue with the component. This can point it that the design is indeed difficult, or the product does not match the description. It can also point that there’s user error and that nothing is wrong at all. Assess the situation. 
Any authority issue should be escalated to steering committee. 
Lessons learned is great to assess a situation before finding an alternate solution during the planning stages. Saves time
If the team is already busy and WIPS (work in progress) have been maximized, then see if new features the customer is asking for are even feasible to begin with and how it would impact with the product owner. 
Assess and observe team dynamics to know how to best serve them
if there’s issues with the project and the team has failed to address it, maybe how you’re measuring the product is wrong. Revisit your KPIs
Selecting a vendor is not about picking someone with the best price. Quality and method matter too. 
Remember, management reserves are for issues that were outside of scope or were unforeseen. If your contingency reserve does not cover a know issue however, then you should submit a change request to modify scope, cost, and schedule baselines to support any new plan to address the issue. 

Ensure that sufficient knowledge transfer is done if a SME is being replaced.
Collaboration creates team buy in, helpful to address teams who are unfamiliar to processes or even refuse. 
Terminate contracts that do not align with the project. It will waste resources. You don’t have to ask the project sponsor to revise them. The procurement team handles these contracts and are separate to the client and sponsor. 
Adding more resources to a task if not always a smart choice. Assessing risks/issues and their impact along with prioritization nails down what may be going on and how to proceed efficiently. 
Job shadowing for newly hired team members allow knowledge exchange in the team and connects the personnel. 
Use a power/interest grid to determine a complaining stakeholder to understand how to address their issue. //Seems simple once it’s written down.
Assess a challenge’s impact before assessing how it impacts the critical path because you would have a fuller understanding of the problem and how it would impact. 
The project team and stakeholders should be engaged to develop a common vision strategy. My peeps. The team is the one carrying our the tasks anyway and that impacts the stakeholders. This must be balanced. 
There can be inconsistent input of benefits and ambiguity if all stakeholders do not attend important meetings, especially meetings that analyze a product. 
Increase communication and use of social computing tools to keep up with ambiguity and change. Clear the fog together.
